# Note
--------
Abstract— 
At present, each business platform has become digitalized. By implementing various rules and methods, business policies could be made smarter. Customer segmentation is a process of doing so by segmenting distinct customers into groups based on a certain attribute such as personality, interests, habit and factors such as demographic data, industry or job sector, and income. Companies or entrepreneurs now focus on attracting customers and impose liabilities in them. Recency, Frequency, and Monetary, in short, RFM, allows customers to be segmented into groups with analogous conduct. Company's transactional data is evaluated over a period of time and the segmentation provides a bird’s eye view on the customer's needs. It also helps in identifying potential customers for the companies. The revenue of the company also shoots up by it. Retaining customers needs marketing techniques tailored to a certain segment. The transactional data is first subjected to an RFM analysis, and then the data is clustered using standard k-means clustering method. In this paper, we have successfully segmented the customers by analyzing customer data for an organization's dataset. Then the segmented customers with RFM score assist taking business decisions, such as which item is the most selling item in the dataset, which item would be needed for recommending and/or promoting, make both the customer and the business organization achieve win-win situation and so on. We evaluate k-means and hierarchical clustering model concerning silhouette coefficient method along with Davies-Bouldin index method to achieve efficient result from previous works.

Keywords—
customer segmentation; RFM analysis; k-means clustering; hierarchical clustering; Silhouette method; Davies-Bouldin index.

